DKP-248: Add release notes for 4.11.0 (#15212)
docker/docker.github.io: desktop/release-notes.md

For frequently asked questions about Docker Desktop releases, see [FAQs](faqs/general.md/#releases)

## Docker Desktop 4.11.0
2022-07-28

> Download Docker Desktop
>
> {% include desktop-install.html %}

### New

> - Docker Desktop is now fully supported for Docker Business customers inside VMware ESXi and Azure VMs. See [here](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/vm-vdi/) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Docker Desktop is now fully supported for Docker Business customers inside VMware ESXi and Azure VMs.
```

For frequently asked questions about Docker Desktop releases, see [FAQs](faqs/general.md/#releases)

## Docker Desktop 4.11.0
2022-07-28

> Download Docker Desktop
>
> {% include desktop-install.html %}

### New

- Added two new extensions ([vcluster](https://hub.docker.com/extensions/loftsh/vcluster-dd-extension) and [PGAdmin4](https://hub.docker.com/extensions/mochoa/pgadmin4-docker-extension)) to the Extensions Marketplace.

> - Ability to sort extensions has been added to the Extensions Marketplace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The ability to sort extensions has been added to the Extensions Marketplace.
```

> - No more feedback nagging. Thanks to all your feedback, we identified a bug that was causing some users to be asked for feedback too frequently. You should now only be asked for feedback twice a year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug that caused some users to be asked for feedback too frequently. You'll now only be asked for feedback twice a year.
```

> - Custom theme settings for Docker Desktop allow you to specify dark or light mode for Docker Desktop independent of your device settings. Fixes [docker/for-win#12747](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12747)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added custom theme settings for Docker Desktop. This allows you to specify dark or light mode for Docker Desktop independent of your device settings. Fixes [docker/for-win#12747](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12747)
```

> - Add new flag for Windows installer, `--no-windows-containers` to disable Windows containers integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added a new flag for Windows installer, `--no-windows-containers` to disable Windows containers integration.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: We should add the support for running on VMware ESXi and Azure in here. I know it could have worked on previous releases, but we're tying support to this release.

- Docker Desktop is now fully supported for Docker Business customers inside VMware ESXi and Azure VMs. See (reference to documentation) for details.

In fact, let's put this as the first item in the New section.

Reviewer 3: Maybe in highlights as well then ?

Author: Sounds great, do you know where the documentation link needs to point?

Reviewer: The new link will be https://docs.docker.com/desktop/vm-vdi/

Author: @stephen-turner @aevesdocker I've implemented this change now, let me know if it matches what you want.

Author: Just noticed that this link seems to have broken the build as it doesn't exist. Is there a different process for internal links like this?

Reviewer: Yeh not to worry - the link is broken because the PR that has created that link has not been published yet. On release day, I'll publish that PR first and then this one.

> 

Reviewer 4: - Added a new flag for Mac install command, `--user <username>` that setup Docker Desktop for a specific user and doesn't install privileged daemon nor asks for admin password
(cc @stephen-turner @christophermclellan)

### Upgrades
- [Docker Compose v2.7.0](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.7.0)
- [Docker Compose "Cloud Integrations" v1.0.28](https://github.com/docker/compose-cli/releases/tag/v1.0.28)
- [Kubernetes v1.24.2](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.24.2)
- [Go 1.18.4](https://github.com/golang/go/releases/tag/go1.18.4)

### Bug fixes and minor changes

#### For all platforms

> - Adds the Container / Compose icon as well as the exposed port(s) / exit code to the Containers screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added the Container / Compose icon as well as the exposed port(s) / exit code to the Containers screen.
```

> - Updated Docker theme palette colours values to match design system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Updated the Docker theme palette colour values to match our design system.
```

- Improved an error message from `docker login` if Registry Access Management is blocking the Docker engine's access to Docker Hub.

> - Increase throughput between the Host and Docker, for example increasing performance of `docker cp`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Increased throughput between the Host and Docker. For example increasing performance of `docker cp`.
```

- Collecting diagnostics takes less time to complete.

> - Selecting/unselecting a compose app on the containers overview will select/unselect all its containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Selecting/unselecting a compose app on the containers overview now selects/deselects all its containers.
```

> - Show tag names on the container overview image column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tag names on the container overview image column are visible.
```

- Added search decorations to the terminal's scrollbar so that matches outside the viewport are visible.

> - Fixed issue on search which doesn't work well on containers page [docker/for-win#12828](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12828).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue with search which doesn't work well on containers page [docker/for-win#12828](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12828).
```

> - Fixed issue on infinite loading on volume screen [docker/for-win#12789](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12789).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue which caused infinite loading on the **Volume** screen [docker/for-win#12789](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12789).
```

- Fixed a problem in the Container UI where resizing or hiding columns didn't work. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6391](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6391).
- Fixed a bug where the state of installing, updating, or uninstalling multiple extensions at once was lost when leaving the Marketplace screen.

> - Fixed issue where compose version in the about page would only get updated from v2 to v1 after restart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where the compose version in the about page would only get updated from v2 to v1 after restarting Docker Desktop.
```

> - Fixed an issue where user cannot not see log view because their underlying hardware didn't support WebGL2 rendering. Fixes [docker/for-win#12825](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12825).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where users cannot see the log view because their underlying hardware didn't support WebGL2 rendering. Fixes [docker/for-win#12825](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12825).
```

- Fixed a bug where the UI for Containers and Images got out of sync.

> - Fix a startup race when the experimental virtualization framework is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a startup race when the experimental virtualization framework is enabled.
```

#### For Mac

- Fixed an issue executing Compose commands from the UI. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6400](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6400).

#### For Windows

- Fixed horizontal resizing issue. Fixes [docker/for-win#12816](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12816).

> - If an HTTP/HTTPS proxy is configured in the UI, then automatically send traffic from image builds and running containers to the proxy, avoiding the need to separately configure environment variables in each container or build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If an HTTP/HTTPS proxy is configured in the UI, then it automatically sends traffic from image builds and running containers to the proxy. This avoids the need to separately configure environment variables in each container or build.
```

> - Fixed an issue doing actions in the UI with Compose apps that were created from a WSL distro. Fixes [docker/for-win#12806](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12806).

Reviewer: Can this sentence be clarified further? I'm not sure what this is meant to mean.

Author: @joe0BAB implemented this change, and would probably be the best person to clarify this note.

Reviewer 5: But the fix already got shipped with the patch release 4.10.1, not sure it should be on this list again

Author: Ah ok, my bad I didn't spot it on the 4.10.1 list. I'll remove it from this one.

> 

Reviewer 4: - add Windows installer `--backend=windows` option to set windows containers as default backend

Author: I've amended this slightly to fit in with the writing style we use for the rest of the notes @aevesdocker

For frequently asked questions about Docker Desktop releases, see [FAQs](faqs/general.md/#releases)

## Docker Desktop 4.11.0
2022-07-28

> Download Docker Desktop
>

> > [Windows](https://desktop.docker.com/win/main/amd64/83496/Docker%20Desktop%20Installer.exe) |

Reviewer 6: The download links of the latest version were always the general download links without the build number, but also with an UTM. Do we want to continue with this behaviour or have we decided to change this?

When creating a new release notes PR we typically had to change the section of the previous version (line 118) to have the fixed links with the build number in it. I now also realise that line 118 is just an include. 🤔 

The current preview https://deploy-preview-15212--docsdocker.netlify.app/desktop/release-notes/ shows that 4.11.0 looks more compact, then 4.10.1 is more detailed with bigger boxes for each platform, then 4.10.0 is more compact again with the checksums.

So for the the 4.11.0 release I suggest to update the `_include/desktop-install.html` file to (1) update the checksums for 4.11.0, and (2) only update the version of the Linux download links. And use this include here instead of lines 31-59.
For the previous 4.10.1 release section we need to either copy the contents of the include file or make it look like 4.10.0 but with the fixed download links including the build numbers and corresponding checksums.

@aevesdocker What do you recommend how it should look like?

Reviewer: Yes you're right @StefanScherer in your recommendation of what needs to be updated so that 4.11.0 is more detailed with bigger boxes and so it stands out more. 

It is slightly more labour-intensive now to produce the release notes, but it's important so we can include the checksums in the most efficient/visually appealing way.

Author: I've updated it so that 4.11.0 uses the new layout, and 4.10.1 uses a layout that matches 4.10.0 as discussed.

We should refactor it before the next release so that multiple releases can share `desktop-install.html` if possible.

Reviewer 6: Looks good now, thanks @gavin-timbrell !

        <li><b>Mac Intel:</b> SHA-256 727747ab43d7257c335044406aeb780c894f4b700534e25d86ef38629cc992b9</li>
        <li><b>Mac Arm:</b> SHA-256 8d67da857b7f9cf6d5cce54fdccf3bbc8b918c4f1cf1247bceda21948d45a1d2</li>
        <li><b>Linux DEB:</b> SHA-256 7f061ce12b177b822fcb622bae0779212b0a69a07ec5f53341d85550d1f9a3c6</li>
        <li><b>Linux RPM:</b> SHA-256 cc44ffa7531eeb4f04cd1d03741637d0b708242ff51a5a34b8c4557804376285</li>
        <li><b>Linux Arch:</b> SHA-256 081589005b40d7e425e213d9fdedc84d6c8487db483638582363b54bd53bebfe</li>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>

### New

- Added two new extensions (vcluster and PGAdmin4) to the Extensions Marketplace.
- Ability to sort extensions has been added to the Extensions Marketplace.
- No more feedback nagging. Thanks to all your feedback, we identified a bug that was causing some users to be asked for feedback too frequently. You should now only be asked for feedback twice a year.
- Custom theme settings for Docker Desktop allow you to specify dark or light mode for Docker Desktop independent of your device settings.

> - Add new flag for Windows installer, `--no-windows-containers` to disable Windows Containers integration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Add new flag for Windows installer, `--no-windows-containers` to disable Windows containers integration.
```

I know it is from my changelog, sorry for that 🙏

### Upgrades
- [Docker Compose v2.7.0](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.7.0)
- [Docker Compose "Cloud Integrations" v1.0.28](https://github.com/docker/compose-cli/releases/tag/v1.0.28)
- [Kubernetes v1.24.2](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.24.2)
- [Go 1.18.4](https://github.com/golang/go/releases/tag/go1.18.4)

### Bug fixes and minor changes

#### For all platforms

- Adds the Container / Compose icon as well as the exposed port(s) / exit code to the Containers screen.
- Updated Docker theme palette colours values to match design system.
- Improved an error message from `docker login` if Registry Access Management is blocking the Docker engine's access to Docker Hub.

> - Increase throughput between the Host and Docker, for example increasing performance of "docker cp".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Increase throughput between the Host and Docker, for example increasing performance of `docker cp`.
```

- Collecting diagnostics takes less time to complete.
- Selecting/unselecting a compose app on the containers overview will select/unselect all its containers.
- Show tag names on the container overview image column.
- Added search decorations to the terminal's scrollbar so that matches outside the viewport are visible.
- Fixed issue on search which doesn't work well on containers page [docker/for-win#12828](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12828).
- Fixed issue on infinite loading on volume screen [docker/for-win#12789](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12789).

> - Fixed a problem in the Container UI where resizing or hiding columns didn't work. Fixed [docker/for-mac#6391](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6391).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Fixed a problem in the Container UI where resizing or hiding columns didn't work. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6391](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6391).
```

Maybe ?

- Fixed a bug where the state of installing, updating, or uninstalling multiple extensions at once was lost when leaving the Marketplace screen.
- Fixed issue where compose version in the about page would only get updated from v2 to v1 after restart.

> - Fixed an issue where user cannot not see log view because their underlying hardware didn't support WebGL2 rendering [docker/for-win#12825](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12825).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where user cannot not see log view because their underlying hardware didn't support WebGL2 rendering. Fixes [docker/for-win#12825](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12825).
```

> - Added setting under Settings -> General to override the OS's light mode / dark mode. Addresses (docker/for-win#12747)[https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12747].

Reviewer 6: The braces for the hyperlink must be swapped.

```suggestion
- Added setting under Settings -> General to override the OS's light mode / dark mode. Addresses [docker/for-win#12747](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12747).
```

> - Added setting under Settings -> General to override the OS's light mode / dark mode. Addresses [docker/for-win#12747](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12747).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Added setting under Settings -> General to override the OS's light mode / dark mode. Fixes [docker/for-win#12747](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12747).
```

- Fixed a bug where the UI for Containers and Images got out of sync.
- Fix a startup race when the experimental virtualization framework is enabled.

#### For Mac

- Fixed an issue executing Compose commands from the UI. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6400](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6400).

#### For Windows

> - Fixed resizing issue on Windows. Fixes [docker/for-win#12816](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12816).

Reviewer 3: Isn't stating "on Windows" duplicate here due to being in the "For Windows" section ?

- Send HTTP and HTTPS traffic from containers via the proxy.
- Fixed an issue doing actions in the UI with Compose apps that were created from a WSL distro. Fixes [docker/for-win#12806](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12806).

#### For Linux

> - Fixed bug related to setting up file shares with spaces in their path on Linux.

Reviewer 3: Isn't stating "on Linux" duplicate here due to being in the "For Linux" section ?

        <h5 class="panel-title">
          <a role="button" data-toggle="collapse" data-parent="#accordion" href="#collapseSeven" aria-expanded="true" aria-controls="collapseSeven">
            Checksums
            <i class="fa fa-chevron-down"></i>
          </a>
        </h5>
      </div>
      <div id="collapseSeven" class="panel-collapse collapse" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="headingSeven">
        <div class="panel-body">
        <li><b>Windows:</b> SHA-256 9f92222ea43c3157c754525ac3c4958f4f6d5330d5ce295650db2ab8abaf545f</li>
        <li><b>Mac Intel:</b> SHA-256 727747ab43d7257c335044406aeb780c894f4b700534e25d86ef38629cc992b9</li>
        <li><b>Mac Arm:</b> SHA-256 8d67da857b7f9cf6d5cce54fdccf3bbc8b918c4f1cf1247bceda21948d45a1d2</li>
        <li><b>Linux DEB:</b> SHA-256 7f061ce12b177b822fcb622bae0779212b0a69a07ec5f53341d85550d1f9a3c6</li>
        <li><b>Linux RPM:</b> SHA-256 cc44ffa7531eeb4f04cd1d03741637d0b708242ff51a5a34b8c4557804376285</li>
        <li><b>Linux Arch:</b> SHA-256 081589005b40d7e425e213d9fdedc84d6c8487db483638582363b54bd53bebfe</li>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>

### New

> - Added two new extensions (vcluster and PGAdmin4) are available in the Extensions Marketplace.

Reviewer 2: This isn't a sentence.
```suggestion
- Added two new extensions (vcluster and PGAdmin4) to the Extensions Marketplace.
```

- Ability to sort extensions has been added to the Extensions Marketplace.

> - No more feedback nagging - thanks to all your feedback we were able to identify a bug with our feedback dialog, in 4.11+ you should only experience the NPS twice a year.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- No more feedback nagging. Thanks to all your feedback, we identified a bug that was causing some users to be asked for feedback too frequently. You should now only be asked for feedback twice a year.
```

- Custom theme settings for Docker Desktop allow you to specify dark or light mode for Docker Desktop independent of your device settings.

### Upgrades
- [Docker Compose v2.7.0](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.7.0)
- [Docker Compose "Cloud Integrations" v1.0.28](https://github.com/docker/compose-cli/releases/tag/v1.0.28)
- [Kubernetes v1.24.2](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.24.2)
- [Go 1.18.4](https://github.com/golang/go/releases/tag/go1.18.4)

### Bug fixes and minor changes

#### For all platforms

> - Add new flag for Windows installer, `--no-windows-containers` to disable Windows Containers integration.

Reviewer 2: Let's move this to the New section.

- Collecting diagnostics takes less time to complete.
- Selecting/unselecting a compose app on the containers overview will select/unselect all its containers.
- Show tag names on the container overview image column.
- Added search decorations to the terminal's scrollbar so that matches outside the viewport are visible.
- Fixed issue on search which doesn't work well on containers page [docker/for-win#12828](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12828).
- Fixed issue on infinite loading on volume screen [docker/for-win#12789](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12789).
- Fixed a problem in the Container UI where resizing or hiding columns didn't work. Fixed [docker/for-mac#6391](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6391).
- Fixed a bug where the state of installing, updating, or uninstalling multiple extensions at once was lost when leaving the Marketplace screen.
- Fixed issue where compose version in the about page would only get updated from v2 to v1 after restart.
- Fixed an issue where user cannot not see log view because their underlying hardware didn't support WebGL2 rendering [docker/for-win#12825](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12825).

> - Fixed a bug in user survey nagging too frequently.

Reviewer 2: You've already included this in the New section.

> - Added setting under Settings -> General to override the OS's light mode / dark mode. Addresses (docker/for-win#12747)[https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12747].

Reviewer 2: And this one is in the New section too.

Author: Looking at this, it's present in the new section as well, just worded differently:
```
Custom theme settings for Docker Desktop allow you to specify dark or light mode for Docker Desktop independent of your device settings.
```

Is it worth just adding the `for-win` link from this item on there?

Reviewer 2: Yes, add the for-win link in the New section and delete this one.

- Fixed a bug where the UI for Containers and Images got out of sync.
- Fix a startup race when the experimental virtualization framework is enabled.

#### For Mac

- Fixed an issue executing Compose commands from the UI. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6400](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6400).

#### For Windows

- Fixed resizing issue on Windows. Fixes [docker/for-win#12816](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12816).

> - send HTTP and HTTPS traffic from containers via the proxy.

Reviewer 2: Capital S at the beginning of the sentence. Also, is there a user-facing bug that this is fixing?

Author: No Github issue for it, seems to have originated from a customer support ticket on Zendesk

Reviewer 2: Can you at least describe it from a user pov not a technical pov?

Reviewer 7: The user (a developer running `apt-get` from a `Dockerfile` IIRC) was confused because they had configured the proxy settings in the UI, but the image build wasn't respecting them. The user said they expected Desktop proxy configuration to be "one and done". Maybe

> Win: If an HTTP/HTTPS proxy is configured in the UI, then automatically send traffic from image builds and running containers to the proxy, without having to separately configure each container or build via environment variables.

- Fixed an issue doing actions in the UI with Compose apps that were created from a WSL distro. Fixes [docker/for-win#12806](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/12806).

#### For Linux

> - Fixes bug related to setting up file shares with spaces in their path on Linux.

Reviewer 2: "Fixed" not "Fixes".

> ### Known Issues

Reviewer 2: If there are no known issues, delete the section, don't leave an empty section.
